# Utilities for Shadowsocks client

This repository covers some utility scripts for Shadowsocks client, it helps to improve the performance 
and resolve some known issues for <a href="https://github.com/shadowsocks/openwrt-shadowsocks">Shadowsocks client</a> running on <a href="https://openwrt.org/">OpenWRT</a>.

There is no warranty here, use these scripts at your own risk!

## Who may use these scripts?

These scripts will run on <a href="https://openwrt.org/">OpenWRT</a> (A lightweight <a href="http://lede-project.org">LEDE</a> linux system.
The people who's located in China mainland and be forbidden visiting google.com, facebook.com, twitter.com, etc. have installed Shadowsocks client on his own OpenWRT system, this will be able to reach these inaccessible sites by Shadowsocks,  wiling to use these scripts helping himself to improve performance, resolve TCP/IP forwarding, keep watch over Shadowsocks runs normally, etc.

## Usage
Please put all .sh scripts in /root directory, then change their attributes as executable.

*chmod 777 \*.sh*

Copy cron job instructions in scheduled_tasks.txt to LUCI web interface > 'System' > 'Scheduled Tasks',
Or you sign in OpenWRT system by SSH, then execute command line in console:

*crontab -e*

Then press 'i' key to insert cron job command lines in there, then press 'Esc' key & press 'Shift + :', 'wq' to save / exit .

## List of scripts

1. ss_watchdog.sh

Utility script that it can be executed by scheduling every x minutes (see below), it will keep watch over Shadowsocks runs normally, the theory inside the script is to check if google.com can be reached by 'wget' command, if it's not successfully then furthermore check if baidu.com can be reached successfully and finally determine restarting Shadowsocks client service.

**Note**: this script will generate log file at /var/log/ss_watchdog.log

2. update_ignore_list.sh

Utility script that it helps to update IP addresses from Asian area in which won't be forwarding by Shadowsocks client, this script also can be executed by scheduling, the list of IP addresses will be saved at file /etc/shadowsocks/ignore.list and used for Shadowsocks client configuration, therefore, Shadowsocks will ignore the list of these IP addresses on requests.

When you started Shadowsocks client, you execute command line:

*ipset list*

you should see the list of IP addresses same as the file /etc/shadowsocks/ignore.list

3. skype_ipset.sh

I've often confused one thing that when Shadowsocks client started, *Why Skype constantly disconnecting / reconnecting when Shadowsocks client is running?*, I ever thought that it would be caused by DNS forwarding since I've already setup [DnsCrypt-proxy](https://wiki.openwrt.org/inbox/dnscrypt) service on OpenWRT, but it's not exactly, now I've figured out that Shadowsocks client / server might exist an issue that it doesn't support Skype communication as well, but I have no idea how to fix the code with it :), What I can do only is writing a script for avoiding that TCP/IP requests from Skype will be forwarding by Shadowsocks, to do this, we need to get the list of IPs that Skype requests on, then appending these IP list in 'ignore list', ignoring these IPs will help to resolve the connectivity issue.

     - Where are these IPs from?
     
     I've just ran Skype on my end, when the connectivity issue happened, 
     I went to the Shadowsocks server (or either router installed OpenWRT) then checking to see which TCP/IP connections often staying on FIN_WAIT1/2 state, 
     this can be finished by command line below:

     netstat -a | grep FIN_WAIT

     The results of TCP/IP connetions presented which target IPs were associated with FIN_WAIT1/2, 
     I've made testing on Google to check who's the owner of these IPs, all of them are belong to Microsoft! 
     meaning that Skype was interacting with those IPs through Shadowsocks, we need to add them in 'ignore list'.
     
     By the methodology, it's possible to modify / update the list of IPs by yourself.

**Note**: skype_ipset.sh has been executed as a part of 2) update_ignore_list.sh, if you don't want to resolve the connectivity issue, you can remove it.

4. scheduled_tasks.txt

It contains the instructions for cron jobs, it will execute the script 1) , 2) at specified time, especially, it will remove the log file generated by 1) script, running the below command line to change the cron jobs.

*crontab -e*
